# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
## Overview of Project
In order to advise on Louise's Kickstarter campaign, we obtained data on previous Kickstarter campaigns and how effective they were at achieving their goals.  This data provided insights that we used to highlight things to consider when trying to launch a successful Kickstarter campaign.   
## Analysis and Challenges

After initially downloading the data into Excel, one of the first things we did was some conditional formatting to allow for ease in identifying successful campaigns verses failed campaigns.  We also performed a qucik calculation and color scale to show the Percentage Funded for all of the data.  This proved to be a valuable exercise becasue the color scale quickly demonstrated that one of the challenges we would face in using this data is that it contained some outliers.  We would need to keep this in mind as we performed further analysis.  One of the other challenges we faced was getting the data into a more readable format since the dates included in the data were in Unix timestamps.  Thankfully throught he use of some Excel tools we were able to quickly convert that into a more readable date field which enhanced our analysis of the data.

Once we were comfortable with the data format, we began using pivot tables and pivot charts to glean insights on what seperated succesful campaigns from failed ones.  These charts and tables can be found using this link [Kickstarter_Challenge](https://github.com/kroman3105/kickstarter_analysis/blob/main/Kickstarter_Challenge.zip).  Some of the graphs that provided useful insights showed the Theater Outcomes Based on Launch date [Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch](https://github.com/kroman3105/kickstarter_analysis/blob/main/Resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png)

In addition we found the Outcomes Based on Goals chart to be particularly insightful [Outcomes_vs_Goals](https://github.com/kroman3105/kickstarter_analysis/blob/main/Resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)
## Conclusions
As we reviewed the Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date chart, we noticed it there defintely seems to be an advantage to launching a campaign in the early summer.  A campaign launched in May or June returns a favorable success rate.  On the flip side of this, the chart illustrates that a campaign launced in December is just is likely to fail as it is to succeeed so we may want to avoid a December campaign launch.  A conclusion we drew from the Outcomes Based on Goals data is to be sure not to set a goal that is too lofty.  The majority of campaigns with goals set at $4,500 and above seemed to have failed to reach this goal.

While this data is useful and provides insights into timing and size of the campaign to launch, one of the limitations we came across in this dataset is that it doesn't do much to show how successful backers heard about the campaign in the first place.  It would have been useful to have some info to know how they heard about the campaign in order to provide insight to Louise to know the best way to get the word out once the campaign is launched.  We also feel it would be useful to add some tables and graphs that utilize the Average Donation calculation.  This would help us see which types of campaigns were bringing in the most amount of money per backer, and we could also compare this with the Goal of the campaign to see if the size of the Goal contributed to the average donation per backer.    
